# Homework 9: Implement Graph Algorithms with GridGraph

Introduction to Big Data Systems course

**Due: December 2, 2025** 23:59 China time. Late submission results in lower (or even no) scores.

For questions or concerns, contact TA (Yunyi Chen) by WeChat. Or send an email to cyy23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn if you could not use WeChat.



## Overview

In this assignment, you need to implement **TWO** of the following algorithms with GridGraph and C++, aiming to use the graph computing system to solve a problem.



## Environment

You can do this assignment on your own PC or on the server. 

We have offered the GridGraph source code directory on the server at: `/data/hw9_src`



## About GridGraph

GridGraph is a large-scale out-of-core graph processing framework on a single machine, you can refer to this paper for detail about GridGraph: 

https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/atc15/atc15-paper-zhu.pdf

Source code and build instructions: 

https://github.com/thu-pacman/GridGraph

It can be built directly on Ubuntu with `gcc` (by typing `make`). If you wish to build in MacOS or Windows platform, prepared to meet troubles. The system runs best with machine with SSDs, but hard disk is also fine

#### How to write your own application with GridGraph

You can just place your code in the subdirectory called `example`, then modify the `Makefile`. After compiled successfully, you will get the application in the subdirectory called `bin`.

**Hint:** 

**You should first read the `README.md` in the repo to learn how to compile and run application with GridGraph. And it will be helpful for you to understand how to program with GridGraph and finish this homework by reading the code of example applications (like PageRank, BFS) in the `example` directory.**



## Candidate Algorithms

Notice: You should implement TWO (2) of the following algorithms with GridGraph at least. 

The candidate algorithms, as well as its reference sample code in GraphChi, Ligra or X-Stream, is as follows. **And maybe you should first understand these algorithms with the sample code in them or other resources.** 

- **Conductance:** https://github.com/epfl-labos/x-stream/blob/master/algorithms/scan/conductance.hpp 

- **K-Cores:** https://github.com/GraphChi/graphchi-cpp/blob/master/toolkits/graph_analytics/kcores.cpp

- **PageRank-Delta:** 

  https://github.com/jshun/ligra/blob/master/apps/PageRankDelta.C

  https://github.com/epfl-labos/x-stream/blob/master/algorithms/pagerank/pagerank_ddf.hpp 
  
  

## Dataset

You need to test your programs on the LiveJournal dataset. We have placed the dataset on the server at: `/data/hw9_data`. This directory contains the following files:
  
1. **livejournal (|V|=4847571)** 

    The original graph data in binary form. This graph is directed and unweighted. If you want to do this assignment on your own computer, you can download the dataset from: https://cloud.tsinghua.edu.cn/f/0796d755f0824c668496/

2. **livejournal_undirect, livejournal_weighted**

    Since the input of some algorithms is undirected or weighted graph (see additional material for detail), we also provide both the undirected and the weighted versions of LiveJournal graph. They are generated by using the tools provided in the code directory, and you can also generate them by yourself.
   - `make_undirect`: make an undirected graph from an existing directed graph
   - `add_weight`: add a random weight to each edge 

3. **LiveJournal_Grid/, LiveJournal_Grid_Undirected/, LiveJournal_Grid_Weighted/**

    The directories containing preprocessed (grid-partitioned) graph data in GridGraph format. You can use them to run your applications without preprocessing the graph data above by yourself.


**IMPORTANT**. Since the provided dataset is **VERY LARGE**, please **DO NOT** copy them to your own directory on the server. Instead, we provide a script `link_to_hw9_data.sh` in the code directory to help you create symbolic links to the dataset. You can run the script as follows (assuming you are in the code directory):
```
./link_to_hw9_data.sh /data/hw9_data/LiveJournal_Grid ./LiveJournal_Grid
```
This will create a directory `LiveJournal_Grid` in your current directory, which contains symbolic links to the files in `/data/hw9_data/LiveJournal_Grid`. Similarly, you can create symbolic links to the undirected and weighted versions of the partitioned LiveJournal graph using the same script. Note that since GridGraph requires write permission to the input graph directory, and you do not have write permission to `/data/hw9_data`, creting a symbolic link directly to `/data/hw9_data/LiveJournal_Grid` will not work. So please use the provided script to create symbolic links in your own directory.

Starting from the partitioned graph data, you can run your applications as instructed in the `README.md` of GridGraph.


## Hand-in

Please submit your assignment containing your report (including the implementations, optimizations and performances) and the code using GridGraph. 

Please describe your implementation in detail in your report.
